JENKINS
Jenkins is an open-source automation tool written in Java programming language that allows continuous integration. Jenkins offers a straightforward way to set up a continuous integration or continuous delivery environment for almost any combination of languages and source code repositories using pipelines, as well as automating other routine development tasks.
The following are the main or most popular Jenkins use cases:
●	Continuous Integration: With Jenkins pipelines, we can achieve CI for both applications and infrastructure as code.
●	Continuous Delivery: You can set up well-defined and automated application delivery workflows with Jenkins pipelines.

Jenkins achieves CI (Continuous Integration) and CD (Continuous Deployment) with the help of plugins. Plugins are used to allow the integration of various DevOps stages. If you want to integrate a particular tool, you must install the plugins for that tool.
ADVANTAGES OF JENKINS:
●	It is an open-source tool.
●	It is free of cost.
●	It does not require additional installations or components. Means it is easy to install.
●	Easily configurable.
●	It supports 1000 or more plugins to ease your work. If a plugin does not exist, you can write the script for it and share with community.
●	It is built in java and hence it is portable.
●	It is platform independent. It is available for all platforms and different operating systems. Like OS X, Windows, or Linux.
●	Easy support since its open source and widely used.
●	Jenkins also supports cloud-based architecture so that we can deploy Jenkins in cloud-based platforms.
Installation of Jenkins on RHEL/Centos/Amazon Linux:
1.	Download the latest LTS version of Jenkins repository from the official website.
$ sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo \
    https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
sudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
2.	Upgrade the existing packages in the instance.
$ sudo yum upgrade
3.	Install openjdk-11 as a dependency for Jenkins package.
$ sudo yum install java-11-openjdk -y
4.	Install Jenkins from the repository.
$ sudo yum install jenkins
5.	Reload the daemon for effecting the changes.
$ sudo systemctl daemon-reload
Starting and enabling Jenkins:
1.	Enable Jenkins to run on startup.
sudo systemctl enable jenkins
2.	Start the Jenkins service. 
sudo systemctl start jenkins
3.	We can verify if the Jenkins service has started correctly using.
sudo systemctl status Jenkins
4.	If the service is running/active, we can connect to Jenkins on a browser client by connecting to our VM’s IP address and port 8080.
If there is a firewall enabled on your instance and preventing the connection to port 8080, disable the firewalld or add exception to Jenkins for port 8080.
